All right, now, picking up where we left off, we were about to try to figure out how to keep extracting
or parsing out these various parts of a phone number, but without these extraneous bits here, which
in this case is the period, though we're only getting periods here because that's what we have currently
in the in the original string.
If we were to put spaces or commas, you'd be getting spaces or commas there instead.
We don't want any of those whatever separator is being used, right?
We just want just the number part itself.
OK.
And so I promised you that I'd show you some ways to do that.
So let's dig in.
All right.
So as we learned earlier, when we put part of our regular expression inside of parentheses, we are
creating what is called a capture group and whatever is in there by default will be remembered.
And we can reference those capture groups by index, for one thing, right?
So no one would be the first capture group.
Number two is the is the second and so on.
By the way, let me go ahead and show you real quick.
I also promise to tell you what, what is zero?
So let me show you what zero is real quick.
So I'm going to duplicate one more line here and I'm going to just do zero there.
And and then we'll run this and I'll show you what the last bit of output will be.
OK, so there's Capture Group one, capture Group two to three to capture Group three three three are
captured, Group three is three three three and then capture Group zero is the entire string.
OK, so that's just a standard of how regular expressions tend to work.
Capture Group Zero will be the entire string.
OK, I'm going to delete that now, so we want to get just the pertinent bit.
So the way we can do that is by simply using parentheses again without including the parts that we don't
want.
So starting on this first match here, we got a one period here which came out of Capture Group one.
So that'll be the first bit that's in the parentheses, right?
This bit here.
OK.
But within this bit, we've got the one and then we've got a character.
It could be either a hyphen, period comma or space, right?
But it's going to be zero or one of those.
We don't want that part.
We just want this part.
And by the way, since.
Let's let's also expand this a little bit since now I remember to realize that that first number here
is actually the country code.
Maybe we don't want a hard code that to only accept one, right?
We can.
We can go ahead and tell it to accept a digit.
And really, we probably want to allow it to accept.
And I'm not sure on this, but I think the country code can be up to two digits long.
If I'm not mistaken.
So if we say up to two digits right, then you want to take a stab at determining how can we tell the
regular expression to allow the country code to be up to two digits, right?
So it could be could be one digit or or two digits?
Did you get it?
OK, so the way we can do that is with a curly brace, one comma, two close curly brace, right?
So that means we can have one from between one and two digits for the country code here.
OK, well, I guess let's just test that out real quick.
So let's say we have a country code of E. I don't know.
12.
OK, let's run this.
Yep, there we go.
We got 12 now.
OK, so that part, that part is fine.
So now we only want the 12 and not the period.
So what we can actually do here is just use parentheses again.
But only inside of the part that we want, right, so we want to capture just those first digits, one
or two of them and not the rest of it now, actually.
We are going to end up capturing the rest of it too.
And we'll have to ignore that part, and I'll show you how to do that.
So then if we come over here to the next bit, it's going to be the same kind of pattern again.
So we'll capture.
Put a parentheses to the left of the back slashes here and at the end of the curly brace for the three.
And again, I know this looks.
This can look really, really confusing.
So take your time and just really, really look at it, right?
This is the second.
Well, this was the second capture group and we had three digits here, which corresponds to this part
here.
And then what follows is whatever separator we were going to use.
So that's why I'm not putting the closing parentheses around the separator part here, the square bracket
expression here, I'm putting the closing parentheses right after the three curly brace, OK, because
I only am interested in those three digits right there for this part.
And then we'll do the same thing again over here, left parentheses and then right after the curly brace,
close that parentheses.
And while we're at it, let's grab these last four digits also.
And so we'll put a parentheses there and there.
OK, now let's run this and see what we end up with.
OK, now we get something interesting here, we got 12, 12 to three to 12 12 with a period and then
two three to four capture groups one, two and three.
So what's happening is that now that we've put these embedded capture group within a captured group,
the numbering works differently now.
And the way that it works is this outer capture group.
All of that, that's one group one.
Then the Enter Capture Group is Group two, then we go to the next one.
This outer capture group would be three.
Then for.
Then.
Five.
Then six and finally, seven.
OK, so if we only want this one, for starters, that would be two one and then two.
So let's change this to a two.
Then.
Three, which we don't want.
For which we do want.
So then we'll get the fourth one there and then.
Five.
Six, So then we want the sixth one, and then I'll duplicate line 18 and then the last one we want
is seven.
So let's run that and see what we get.
Hey, look at that.
We got 12, 12.
Two, three, two.
Two, three, two, three, three three.
And then two, three, six five.
OK, so we now have been able to pass all of this and then we could we could get fans here right?
Like we could use a, I don't know, format method instead and say the well, we can say, you know,
country code colon this percent s new line.
You know, so we can do something like that.
What is this next one area code?
Percent, as new line remember format, the format method doesn't output its own new line, so you have
to you have to put one in there if you want one.
Unlike the print line, which prints a whole entire line, including going to the next line with a new
line character.
Then the third one is the I always call it the exchange.
There's another name for it, but I don't remember what it is and it does not matter.
All right, and then finally.
That last bit is called the local phone, I think it's called the line, no line, no sentence backslash
in.
All right.
Let's run this and see.
Country Code 12 area code two three two, exchange three, three three and line number two three six
five.
So look at that.
Isn't that nice?
OK, so we've been able to pass all of this.
And if you'll recall, now we did this, we did this.
Actually, we can jump over here and see, let's see, we can jump over to the other class where we
did this in the other way using.
Yeah, here it is to me.
Oops, oops.
I didn't mean to do that.
Let's make a little room here.
Oops.
There we go.
All right.
So if you'll recall now we had the format a little bit different now that I see that.
And that's fine.
We might actually even teach it how to how to how to accept this format.
So, yeah, just looking back here in this way, we we broke it out into methods just to make it a little
more readable in this regard.
Now, I would say that this is definitely more readable for a for a programmer.
However, it is much less flexible, much, much less flexible.
There's not a lot of wiggle room here for spaces and things.
It has to remain pretty much other than this leading space here.
That part can be optional, but this space here and where the hyphen is and all of that, that's pretty
much the only format that this approach is ever going to accept without writing a whole, whole, whole
lot more code and it will quickly get completely un maintainable.
So it's readable for sure, but it's not very flexible in terms of what inputs it can actually accept.
Whereas if we jump back over.
Whereas this one, I will admit, is going to be very scary and intimidating looking to the untrained
eye and sometimes even even to the trained eye.
This won't immediately be very obvious what it's doing, but just just consider that this one line actually,
let me just keep this open for a moment here.
This one line of regular expression here is pretty much the equivalent of.
All of this.
All of this and all of this, and it's much more flexible, too much more flexible, less readable,
but much more flexible.
So there's a tradeoff there when using regular expressions, for sure.
You know, I don't want to say that they should always be used for every single thing right off the
bat.
It really depends on who you are, how confident you are in your ability to write and maybe even read
regular expressions and maybe even the team that you're working with and how often you may have to go
in there and maintain it.
But it definitely is way more concise way, way, way more concise.
The only extra bit here, like actually, we didn't even need this line.
I guess I'll get rid of that line now, right?
We did need that line there.
And then and then, you know, this is kind of boilerplate code that you need just to kind of set up
using regular expressions in the more advanced ways.
And then this bit here is equivalent to this bit right here, right?
That's that's pretty much the same thing.
In fact, maybe you could even argue it's more equivalent to all six of those lines there may.
So, OK, now there are other ways to do this, and I want to show you a little bit more that we could
do to make this even more readable.
Well, a little more maintainable, perhaps, and a tiny bit more readable.
And we'll take a look at that in the next video.